<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>
Untitled Document
 </title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" title="Sky" type="text/css" href="/preview_css/cnx-styles/newlook/document.css"/>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/exercise.js"> </script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/qml_1-0.js"> </script>
    <!--****QML**** sets the feedback and hints to non-visible.-->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/mathjax/MathJax.js">
          MathJax.Hub.Config({
            	extensions: ["mml2jax-bugfix.js"],
            	menuSettings: {zoom:"Click"},
            	"HTML-CSS": {scale:110},
            	jax: ["input/MathML","output/HTML-CSS"]
        	});
        	if(location.href.split("#").length != 1) {
          	MathJax.Hub.Register.StartupHook("End", function() {location.href = location.href; });
        	}
        </script>
    <style type="text/css">
	      .feedback {display:none}
	      .hint {display:none}
        body {margin: 0px; padding: 15px;}
	    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!--Editing In Place javascript-->
    <div id="cnx_module_header">
      <h1 id="cnx_content_title">
Untitled Document
 </h1>
    </div>
    <div xmlns:cnx="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml" xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml/0.4" xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0" xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds" xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/" id="cnx_main">
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167820056313">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817869326">
Attribution
   </dfn>
: beliefs or perceptions about the causes of success and failure.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817828725">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817868866">
Autonomy
   </dfn>
: the psychological need to feel free of external constraints on behavior, to
feel empowered.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817905985">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817927061">
Competence
   </dfn>
: the psychological need to feel capable or skilled.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817848934">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817862357">
Extinction
   </dfn>
: the tendency for learned behaviors to become less likely to continue when
reinforcement no longer occurs.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817862472">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817880631">
Extrinsic motivation
   </dfn>
: the drive to act based on factors external to the person (e.g., a promise of
reward, potential recognition, the threat of punishment).
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817847818">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817879810">
Intrinsic motivation
   </dfn>
: the drive to act based on factors internal to the person (e.g., being
interested in the task, feeling optimally challenged, personally valuing the
task).
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167819947020">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817861502">
Mastery goals
   </dfn>
: reasons for engaging in an action that involve self-improvement (e.g.,
studying hard in order to learn as much as you can).
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817862475">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167819943187">
Operant conditioning
   </dfn>
: changing the odds of a behavior recurring. According to behavioral theory,
behavior can be strengthened (more likely to recur) by reinforcements, such as
rewards, praise, or removing an unpleasant condition; behavior can be weakened
(less likely to recur) by punishment, such as withdrawal of approval or adding
an unpleasant condition.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817904005">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167820036206">
Performance goals
   </dfn>
: reasons for engaging in an action that involve demonstrating competence (e.g.,
studying hard in order to show others that you are smart).
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167819943833">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817828218">
Persistence
   </dfn>
: to continue despite difficulty or obstacles.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167819619595">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817919204">
Personal interest
   </dfn>
: an interest that is relatively stable (more enduring than situational
interest) and due to factors within the person. Examples of personal interest
include being drawn to write an essay because it&#8217;s related to a hobby of
yours, and studying the music of a historical era because you play the piano.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167819904061">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817919362">
Relatedness
   </dfn>
: the psychological need to belong, to feel connected or involved with others.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817925747">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817830242">
Self-determination
   </dfn>
: free choice of one's own acts or states without external compulsion.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167817830569">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167817828438">
Self-efficacy
   </dfn>
: an individual&#8217;s belief that he/she is capable of carrying out a specific
task or of reaching a specific goal
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167819947056">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167819646573">
Self-handicapping
   </dfn>
: occurs in evaluative situations in which the person does not believe she will
succeed; it is thought to enable the person to blame failure on factors other
than his own ability.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167819945063">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167819945064">
Self-regulation
   </dfn>
: the development of a set of adaptive behaviors that positively affect one's
learning or behavior. Examples of self-regulated learning strategies include
periodically stopping myself during reading to check if I understood what I
just read, organizing my workspace so I have everything I need to complete the
task, and rewarding myself for accomplishing steps in a project.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167819646574">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167819843576">
Situational interest
   </dfn>
: an interest that is temporarily triggered by features of the immediate
situation. Examples of situational interest include being drawn to a powerpoint
presentation by the animation and bright colors, enjoying working on an
assignment because you can work with a partner.
  </p>
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id1167820036190">
   <dfn class="term" id="import-auto-id1167819943313">
Vicarious
   </dfn>
: performed by one person to the benefit of another. Vicarious learning involves
being able to learn from watching someone else do the task.
  </p>
 </div>
  </body>
</html>
