<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>
Untitled Document
 </title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" title="Sky" type="text/css" href="/preview_css/cnx-styles/newlook/document.css"/>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/exercise.js"> </script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/js/qml_1-0.js"> </script>
    <!--****QML**** sets the feedback and hints to non-visible.-->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/preview_css/mathjax/MathJax.js">
          MathJax.Hub.Config({
            	extensions: ["mml2jax-bugfix.js"],
            	menuSettings: {zoom:"Click"},
            	"HTML-CSS": {scale:110},
            	jax: ["input/MathML","output/HTML-CSS"]
        	});
        	if(location.href.split("#").length != 1) {
          	MathJax.Hub.Register.StartupHook("End", function() {location.href = location.href; });
        	}
        </script>
    <style type="text/css">
	      .feedback {display:none}
	      .hint {display:none}
        body {margin: 0px; padding: 15px;}
	    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!--Editing In Place javascript-->
    <div id="cnx_module_header">
      <h1 id="cnx_content_title">
Untitled Document
 </h1>
    </div>
    <div xmlns:cnx="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml" xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml/0.4" xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0" xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds" xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/" id="cnx_main">
  <p class="para" id="import-auto-id2775995">
In this module, we examine motivational challenges in the classroom. As you will
soon see, many of these challenges are related to individuals&#8217; confidence
in their abilities to succeed. Recognizing motivational problems as they arise,
and intervening early, will help reduce the likelihood that such problems will
endure. Thus, we consider evidence-based practices to minimize the challenges,
so that we can support our students&#8217; success.
  </p>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2519773"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Self-handicapping
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2699718">
As mentioned, failure-avoidant goals by nature undermine academic achievement.
Often they are a negative byproduct of the competitiveness of
    <a class="cnxn" href="">
performance goals
    </a>
(Urdan, 2004). If a teacher (and sometimes also fellow students) put too much
emphasis on being the best in the class, and if interest in learning the
material therefore suffers, then some students may decide that success is
beyond their reach or may not be desirable in any case. The
alternative&#8212;simply avoiding failure&#8212;may seem wiser as well as more
feasible. Once a student adopts this attitude, he or she may underachieve more
or less deliberately, doing only the minimum work necessary to avoid looking
foolish or to avoid serious conflict with the teacher. Avoiding failure in this
way is a form of self-handicapping&#8212; deliberate actions and choices that
the reduce chances of success. Students may self-handicap in a number of ways;
in addition to not working hard, they may procrastinate about completing
assignments, for example, or set goals that are unrealistically high. Another
self-handicapping strategy is to become involved in too many other activities
or place undo importance on other tasks. The main idea here is that self-
handicapping allows individuals to attribute their failure to factors
    <i class="emphasis">
other than their own ability
    </i>
. Blaming my poor performance on the project on the fact that I&#8217;m really
busy is less damaging to my self-esteem than blaming my performance on the fact
that I didn&#8217;t really understand the concepts.
   </p></div>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2734149"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Procrastination
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2775263">
As just mentioned, procrastination can be a form of self-handicapping, but
people procrastinate for many reasons beyond protecting their sense of self-
worth. And, it is not always deliberate. Students might be overwhelmed by the
complexity of a significant paper or project, for example, and not know how to
get started. Others may experience anxiety over the sheer quantity of work they
have to get done, and this may lead to a kind of paralysis. Still others may be
completely bored by the task.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2774543">
Teachers can help students overcome self-handicapping by tackling the problem
head on. Like many self-defeating behaviors, acknowledging responsibility for
it is an important first step. Next comes an exploration for why students are
undermining their own successes. Understanding the underlying reasons helps
identify the approaches that will be most effective.
   </p></div>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2773181"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Learned helplessness
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2773224">
Learned helplessness has roots in
    <a class="cnxn" href="">
self-efficacy
    </a>
as well as
    <a class="cnxn" href="">
attribution
    </a>
theory. If a person&#8217;s sense of self-efficacy is very low over repeated
experiences, he or she can develop
    <i class="emphasis">
learned helplessness,
    </i>
    <!--empty emphasis tag-->
a perception of complete
    <i class="emphasis">
lack
    </i>
of control in mastering a task. The attitude is similar to depression, a
pervasive feeling of apathy and a belief that effort makes no difference and
does not lead to success. Learned helplessness was originally studied from the
behaviorist perspective of classical and
    <a class="cnxn" href="">
operant conditioning
    </a>
by the psychologist Martin Seligman (1995). The studies used a somewhat
&#8220;gloomy&#8221; experimental procedure in which an animal, such as a rat
or a dog, was repeatedly shocked in a cage in a way that prevented the animal
from escaping the shocks. In a later phase of the procedure, conditions were
changed so that the animal could avoid the shocks by merely moving from one
side of the cage to the other. Yet frequently they did not bother to do so!
Seligman called this behavior
    <i class="emphasis">
learned helplessness.
    </i>
Click
    <!--empty link tag-->
    <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MTqBP-x3yR0">
     <u class="emphasis">
here
     </u>
    </a>
for a short demonstration of inducing learned helplessness in the classroom.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2587122">
In people, learned helplessness leads to characteristic ways of dealing with
problems. They tend to attribute the source of a problem to themselves, to
generalize the problem to many aspects of life, and to see the problem as
lasting or permanent; in other words, an internal, stable attribution of
failure. More optimistic individuals, in contrast, are more likely to attribute
a problem to outside sources, to see it as specific to a particular situation
or activity, and to see it as temporary or time-limited. Consider, for example,
two students who each fail a test. The one with
    <a class="cnxn" href="">
learned helplessness
    </a>
is more likely to explain the failure by saying something like: &#8220;I&#8217;m
stupid; I never do well on any schoolwork, and I never will.&#8221; The other,
more optimistic student is more likely to say something like: &#8220;I failed
this test because I didn&#8217;t study hard enough; I can study harder next
time.&#8221; Note that the latter example implies that there are factors within
one&#8217;s control that can be adjusted in the future.
   </p></div>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2497208"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Overcoming motivational challenges related to self-efficacy and control
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2602258">
    <a class="cnxn" href="">
Self-handicapping
    </a>
, learned helplessness, and some types of procrastination stem from an
underlying perception of low competence as well as the feeling that they
don&#8217;t have much control over their circumstances. Teachers can minimize
these challenges in students by encouraging their sense of self-efficacy as
well as their sense of control over factors that can influence their success.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2602217">
Here are some best practices to support students&#8217; needs for
    <a class="cnxn" href="">
autonomy
    </a>
and
    <a class="cnxn" href="">
competence
    </a>
, and help encourage students&#8217; positive sense of self-worth:
   </p><div class="list" id="import-auto-id2674399"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
Have students keep a journal, noting their procrastination and other self-
handicapping behaviors and reflecting on their reasons. The goal is to help
students better recognize when they are sabotaging themselves, so that they are
more likely to stop.
     </li><li class="item">
Model effective &#8220;procrastination busters.&#8221; When assigning larger
tasks, break them into smaller ones, and eventually teach students how to do
this themselves. Dividing a research project into several stages, with
deadlines along the way, encourages students to focus on each stage, rather
than the whole project (Schubert Walker, 2000). See also &#8220;
     <a class="cnxn" href="">
Supporting the need for competence.
     </a>
&#8221;
     </li><li class="item">
Teach
     <a class="cnxn" href="">
self-regulation
     </a>
strategies, such as time management, organizational skills, and self-motivation.
For example, have students set up a timeline, then reward themselves for
completing tasks by the scheduled deadline. The use of self-regulation promotes
a sense of control, an important factor in minimizing procrastination (Cleary
&amp; Zimmerman, 2004).
     </li><li class="item">
Help students adopt a mastery orientation. Reduce students&#8217; anxiety over
being evaluated by focusing their efforts on
     <a class="cnxn" href="">
mastery goals
     </a>
(Schubert Walker, 2000). Research suggests that students who engage in tasks in
order to learn as much as they can, or because the task is interesting or
optimally challenging, are more likely to give appropriate effort and persist
to completion (Ryan &amp; Deci, 2000).
     </li><li class="item">
Don&#8217;t allow students who exhibit learned helpnessness give up. Instead,
adjust the difficulty of learning tasks so that students have a realistic
chance to master them. Provide support and encouragement until they succeed,
Most importantly, attribute their successes to internal attributions such as
effort,
     <a class="cnxn" href="">
persistence
     </a>
, and resourcefulness (Weiner, 2005).
     </li><li class="item">
Whenever possible, minimize boredom-related procrastination by connecting
assignments to students&#8217; personal interests. In addition, teach students
to find the interesting aspects, or to find ways to make it interesting or
challenging. Because students are more likely to stick with tasks - even boring
ones - when they know they are important, help students see the value of what
they are learning with the task (Ryan &amp; Deci, 2000). See also &#8220;
     <a class="cnxn" href="">
Supporting the need for autonomy
     </a>
&#8221;
    </li></ul></div></div>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2656774"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Perfectionism
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2656777">
Students who tend to be perfectionists, like those who exhibit learned
helplessness, are motivated by an aversion to failure. Research suggests a
continuum of perfectionist tendencies, ranging from healthy to dysfunctional
(Christopher, 2010). While a healthy dose of perfectionism can drive
individuals towards great accomplishments, dysfunctional perfectionists set
unrealistic goals, are overly sensitive to critique, and can become paralyzed
by their fear of failure.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2656779">
Many of the approaches to reducing students&#8217; tendencies towards
perfectionism are similar to those designed to help students who show learned
helplessness and self-handicapping.
   </p><div class="list" id="import-auto-id2531405"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
Help students set challenging, yet achievable goals. Realistic goal setting is
important to cultivate for all students; perfectionist students need positive
support while developing this skill.
     </li><li class="item">
Focus evaluative feedback on the product, rather than the person. Remind
perfectionists that feedback is an important tool in the quest for mastery. Ask
them to use the feedback to set goals for future performance. See also &#8220;
     <a class="cnxn" href="">
Supporting the need for competence
     </a>
.&#8221;
     </li><li class="item">
When students are devastated by a less than perfect performance, encourage them
to list as many positive aspects of the performance as they can. Help them see
that &#8216;less than perfect&#8217; does not equal &#8216;failure.&#8217;
    </li></ul></div><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2757287">
(University of Texas at Austin Counseling and Mental Health Center, 2012).
   </p></div>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2757290"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Disengagement
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2757293">
Perhaps the most challenging situation in the classroom is working with students
who are alienated or disaffected from the learning process (Brophy, 1998).
Disengagement is characterized by apathy, lack of effort, avoidance - when
possible- and frustration or noncompliance when avoidance is not an option
(Skinner, Kinderman, &amp; Furrer, 2009). Although the reasons for
disengagement vary, it is important for teachers to strive to reconnect the
student to learning and to school.
   </p><div class="list" id="import-auto-id2700508"><ul class="bullet"><li class="item">
Foster a sense of belonging in the classroom. Develop positive, supportive
relationships with disengaged students, even when they seem to resist. Students
who believe that their teacher cares about them are and who feel connected to
the classroom community are more likely to adopt positive classroom behaviors,
such as effort and persistence (Ryan &amp; Deci, 2000).
     </li><li class="item">
Strive to connect learning with students&#8217; interests. While boredom can be
a factor in
     <a class="cnxn" href="">
procrastination
     </a>
, it also leads to disengagement. Getting to know students&#8217; background,
interests, hobbies, etc. will help create opportunities for developing
meaningful, relevant learning experiences.
     </li><li class="item">
Help students to take responsibility for their actions, and to attribute their
successes and failures to factors within their control. Teach them to find (or
create) challenges in order to make the task more engaging (Brophy, 1998).
    </li></ul></div><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2715220">
Teachers will encounter many challenges as they seek to foster students&#8217;
motivation to learn. Drawing on theories of motivation, research points us
toward effective ways to tackle the challenges.
   </p></div>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2586633"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
Further Resources
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2586636">
    <a class="link" href="http://www.education.com/reference/article/self-handicapping/">
     <u class="emphasis">
Self-Handicapping
     </u>
    </a>
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2656766">
    <a class="link" href="http://www.emotionalcompetency.com/helpless.htm">
     <u class="emphasis">
Learned Helplessness: Why Bother?
     </u>
    </a>
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2699850">
    <a class="link" href="http://psychcentral.com/blog/archives/2009/05/11/10-steps-to-conquer-perfectionism/">
     <u class="emphasis">
Dealing with Perfectionism
     </u>
    </a>
   </p></div>
  <div class="section" id="import-auto-id2715090"><h2 class="section-header"><strong class="title">
References
   </strong></h2><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2733968">
Brophy, J. (1998).
    <i class="emphasis">
Motivating students to learn.
    </i>
New York: McGraw-Hill.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2656737">
Christopher, M. (2010). The relationship of perfectionism to affective variables
in gifted and highly able children.
    <i class="emphasis">
Gifted Child Today
    </i>
,
    <i class="emphasis">
33
    </i>
(3), 20-30.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2700338">
Cleary, T. J. and Zimmerman, B. J. (2004). Self-regulation empowerment program:
A school-based program to enhance self-regulated and self-motivated cycles of
student learning.
    <i class="emphasis">
Psychology In The Schools
    </i>
,
    <i class="emphasis">
41
    </i>
(5), 537-550.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2700267">
Ryan, R. M., &amp; Deci, E. L. (2000). Self-determination theory and the
facilitation of intrinsic motivation, social development, and well-being.
American Psychologist, 55, 68-78.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2700271">
Schubert Walker, L. W. (2000). Overcoming the powerlessness of procrastination.
    <i class="emphasis">
Guidance &amp; Counseling
    </i>
,
    <i class="emphasis">
16
    </i>
(1), 39.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2700031">
Schwinger, M. (2011). Prevention of self-handicapping &#8212; The protective
function of mastery goals.
    <i class="emphasis">
Learning &amp; Individual Differences
    </i>
,
    <i class="emphasis">
21
    </i>
(6), 699-709.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2756036">
Shih, S. (2011). Perfectionism, implicit theories of intelligence, and Taiwanese
eighth-grade students' academic engagement.
    <i class="emphasis">
Journal Of Educational Research
    </i>
,
    <i class="emphasis">
104
    </i>
(2), 131-142.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2473269">
Skinner, E. A., Kinderman, T. A., &amp; Furrer, C. J. (2009). A motivational
perspective on engagement and disaffection: Conceptualization and assessment of
children's behavioral and emotional participation in academic activities in the
classroom. Educational and Psychological Measurement, 69 (3):
    <!--empty emphasis tag-->
493-525. doi: 10.1177/0013164408323233
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2602226">
University of Texas at Austin Counseling and Mental Health Center (2012).
    <i class="emphasis">
Perfectionism versus healthy striving.
    </i>
Retrieved from
    <a class="link" href="http://cmhc.utexas.edu/perfectionism.html">
     <u class="emphasis">
http://cmhc.utexas.edu/perfectionism.html
     </u>
    </a>
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2667731">
Urdan, T. (2004) Predictors of academic self-handicapping and achievement:
Examining achievement goals, classroom goal structures, and culture.
    <i class="emphasis">
Journal of Educational Psychology, 96
    </i>
(2), 251-264.
   </p><p class="para" id="import-auto-id2699703">
Weiner, B. (2005). Motivation from an attribution perspective and the social
psychology of perceived competence. In A. Elliot &amp; C. Dweck (Eds.),
    <i class="emphasis">
Handbook of Competence and Motivation,
    </i>
pp. 73-84. New York: Guilford Press.
   </p></div>
 </div>
  </body>
</html>
